# DS3_MovieReccomenderSystem

The goal of this project is to create an effective movie recommender system that curates movies to a user’s preferences. A recommendation system is an algorithm filtered to a target user that provides predicted ratings/suggestions to that user based on their previous preferences. We use the MovieLens dataset which has over 45,000 movies and 26 million ratings on a 1-5 scale from 270,000 users for all the movies. We created a content-based recommender that calculates the cosine similarity between the movie metadata features such as genre, collection, cast members, director, producer, and keywords. With a working model that outputs movie suggestions based on its features, we wanted to also incorporate user preferences to predict the ideal suggestions for a given user. We explored collaborative filtering which calculates a predicted user rating for a certain movie using Singular Value Decomposition (SVD) matrix factorization to compute the similarity scores between users with similar movie preferences. Ultimately, we created a hybrid recommender system that combines the strengths of both the content-based and collaborative filtering recommenders. The models are evaluated using root mean squared error (RMSE) and mean absolute error (MAE) to measure the difference between the actual user rating and the predicted user rating from the hybrid model. Ultimately, through this project, we understood a small glimpse into how companies such as Netflix, Amazon, Spotify, Youtube, and other engines curate recommendations based on user preferences and item features. 
